docs/030_user-guide/010_pepr-cli.md, before:

# Pepr CLI

## `npx pepr init`

Initialize a new Pepr Module.

**Options:**

- `--skip-post-init` - Skip npm install, git init and VSCode launch.
- `--confirm` - Skip verification prompt when creating a new module.
- `--description <string>` - Explain the purpose of the new module.
- `--name <string>` - Set the name of the new module.
- `--skip-post-init` - Skip npm install, git init, and VSCode launch.
- `--errorBehavior <audit|ignore|reject>` - Set an errorBehavior.

---

## `npx pepr update`

Update the current Pepr Module to the latest SDK version. This command is not recommended for production use, instead, we recommend Renovate or Dependabot for automated updates.

**Options:**

- `--skip-template-update` - Skip updating the template files

---

## `npx pepr dev`

Connect a local cluster to a local version of the Pepr Controller to do real-time debugging of your module. Note the `npx pepr dev` assumes a K3d cluster is running by default. If you are working with Kind or another docker-based K8s distro, you will need to pass the `--host host.docker.internal` option to `npx pepr dev`. If working with a remote cluster you will have to give Pepr a host path to your machine that is reachable from the K8s cluster.

NOTE: This command, by necessity, installs resources into the cluster you run it against.  Generally, these resources are removed once the `pepr dev` session ends but there are two notable exceptions:

- the `pepr-system` namespace, and
- the `PeprStore` CRD.

These can't be auto-removed because they're global in scope & doing so would risk wrecking any other Pepr deployments that are already running in-cluster.  If (for some strange reason) you're _not_ `pepr dev`-ing against an ephemeral dev cluster and need to keep the cluster clean, you'll have to remove these hold-overs yourself (or not)!

**Options:**

- `-h, --host [host]` - Host to listen on (default: "host.k3d.internal")
- `--confirm` - Skip confirmation prompt

---

## `npx pepr deploy`

Deploy the current module into a Kubernetes cluster, useful for CI systems. Not recommended for production use.

**Options:**

- `-i, --image [image]` - Override the image tag
- `--confirm` - Skip confirmation prompt
- `--pullSecret <name>` - Deploy imagePullSecret for Controller private registry
- `--docker-server <server>` - Docker server address
- `--docker-username <username>` - Docker registry username
- `--docker-email <email>` - Email for Docker registry
- `--docker-password <password>` - Password for Docker registry
- `--force` - Force deploy the module, override manager field

---

## `npx pepr monitor`

Monitor Validations for a given Pepr Module or all Pepr Modules.

Usage:

```bash
npx pepr monitor [options] [module-uuid]
```

**Options:**

- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

---

## `npx pepr uuid`

Module UUID(s) currently deployed in the cluster with their descriptions.

**Options:**

- `[uuid]` - Specific module UUID

---

## `npx pepr build`

Create a [zarf.yaml](https://zarf.dev) and K8s manifest for the current module. This includes everything needed to deploy Pepr and the current module into production environments.

**Options:**

- `-e, --entry-point [file]` - Specify the entry point file to build with. (default: "pepr.ts")
- `-n, --no-embed` - Disables embedding of deployment files into output module. Useful when creating library modules intended solely for reuse/distribution via NPM
- `-r, --registry-info [<registry>/<username>]` - Provide the image registry and username for building and pushing a custom WASM container. Requires authentication. Builds and pushes 'registry/username/custom-pepr-controller:<current-version>'.
- `-o, --output-dir [output directory]` - Define where to place build output
- `--timeout [timeout]` - How long the API server should wait for a webhook to respond before treating the call as a failure
- `--rbac-mode [admin|scoped]` - Rbac Mode: admin, scoped (default: admin) (choices: "admin", "scoped", default: "admin")
- `-i, --custom-image [custom-image]` - Specify a custom image (including version) for Admission and Watch Deployments. Example: 'docker.io/username/custom-pepr-controller:v1.0.0'
- `--registry [GitHub, Iron Bank]` - Container registry: Choose container registry for deployment manifests.
- `-v, --version <version>. Example: '0.27.3'` - DEPRECATED: The version of the Pepr image to use in the deployment manifests.
- `--withPullSecret <imagePullSecret>` - Image Pull Secret: Use image pull secret for controller Deployment.
- `-z, --zarf [manifest|chart]` - The Zarf package type to generate: manifest or chart (default: manifest).

## `npx pepr kfc`

Execute a `kubernetes-fluent-client` command. This command is a wrapper around `kubernetes-fluent-client`.

Usage:

```bash
npx pepr kfc [options] [command]
```

If you are unsure of what commands are available, you can run `npx pepr kfc` to see the available commands.

For example, to generate usable types from a Kubernetes CRD, you can run `npx pepr kfc crd [source] [directory]`. This will generate the types for the `[source]` CRD and output the generated types to the `[directory]`.

You can learn more about the `kubernetes-fluent-client` [here](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/kubernetes-fluent-client).

Commit message:

feat: override uuid during init (#1963)
## Description

This allows users to override the randomly generated UUID created during
`npx pepr init`. Overriding this field helps clearly identify which
module Pepr pods belong to, especially in environments with multiple
modules.

Missing:
- [x] Update Tests
- [x] Explicit Documentation that UUID is a unique identifier 

## Related Issue

Fixes #1962 
<!-- or -->
Relates to #

## Type of change

- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [x] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Other (security config, docs update, etc)

## Checklist before merging
- [ ] Unit,
[Journey](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/pepr/tree/main/journey),
[E2E Tests](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/pepr-excellent-examples),
[docs](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/pepr/tree/main/docs),
[adr](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/pepr/tree/main/adr) added or
updated as needed
- [ ] [Contributor Guide
Steps](https://docs.pepr.dev/main/contribute/#submitting-a-pull-request)
followed

---------

Signed-off-by: Case Wylie <cmwylie19@defenseunicorns.com>
Co-authored-by: Sam Mayer <sam.mayer@defenseunicorns.com>

docs/030_user-guide/010_pepr-cli.md, after:

# Pepr CLI

## `npx pepr init`

Initialize a new Pepr Module.

**Options:**

- `--skip-post-init` - Skip npm install, git init and VSCode launch.
- `--confirm` - Skip verification prompt when creating a new module.
- `--description <string>` - Explain the purpose of the new module.
- `--name <string>` - Set the name of the new module.
- `--skip-post-init` - Skip npm install, git init, and VSCode launch.
- `--errorBehavior <audit|ignore|reject>` - Set an errorBehavior.
- `--uuid [string]` - Unique identifier for your module with a max length of 32 characters.
---

## `npx pepr update`

Update the current Pepr Module to the latest SDK version. This command is not recommended for production use, instead, we recommend Renovate or Dependabot for automated updates.

**Options:**

- `--skip-template-update` - Skip updating the template files

---

## `npx pepr dev`

Connect a local cluster to a local version of the Pepr Controller to do real-time debugging of your module. Note the `npx pepr dev` assumes a K3d cluster is running by default. If you are working with Kind or another docker-based K8s distro, you will need to pass the `--host host.docker.internal` option to `npx pepr dev`. If working with a remote cluster you will have to give Pepr a host path to your machine that is reachable from the K8s cluster.

NOTE: This command, by necessity, installs resources into the cluster you run it against.  Generally, these resources are removed once the `pepr dev` session ends but there are two notable exceptions:

- the `pepr-system` namespace, and
- the `PeprStore` CRD.

These can't be auto-removed because they're global in scope & doing so would risk wrecking any other Pepr deployments that are already running in-cluster.  If (for some strange reason) you're _not_ `pepr dev`-ing against an ephemeral dev cluster and need to keep the cluster clean, you'll have to remove these hold-overs yourself (or not)!

**Options:**

- `-h, --host [host]` - Host to listen on (default: "host.k3d.internal")
- `--confirm` - Skip confirmation prompt

---

## `npx pepr deploy`

Deploy the current module into a Kubernetes cluster, useful for CI systems. Not recommended for production use.

**Options:**

- `-i, --image [image]` - Override the image tag
- `--confirm` - Skip confirmation prompt
- `--pullSecret <name>` - Deploy imagePullSecret for Controller private registry
- `--docker-server <server>` - Docker server address
- `--docker-username <username>` - Docker registry username
- `--docker-email <email>` - Email for Docker registry
- `--docker-password <password>` - Password for Docker registry
- `--force` - Force deploy the module, override manager field

---

## `npx pepr monitor`

Monitor Validations for a given Pepr Module or all Pepr Modules.

Usage:

```bash
npx pepr monitor [options] [module-uuid]
```

**Options:**

- `-h, --help` - Display help for command

---

## `npx pepr uuid`

Module UUID(s) currently deployed in the cluster with their descriptions.

**Options:**

- `[uuid]` - Specific module UUID

---

## `npx pepr build`

Create a [zarf.yaml](https://zarf.dev) and K8s manifest for the current module. This includes everything needed to deploy Pepr and the current module into production environments.

**Options:**

- `-e, --entry-point [file]` - Specify the entry point file to build with. (default: "pepr.ts")
- `-n, --no-embed` - Disables embedding of deployment files into output module. Useful when creating library modules intended solely for reuse/distribution via NPM
- `-r, --registry-info [<registry>/<username>]` - Provide the image registry and username for building and pushing a custom WASM container. Requires authentication. Builds and pushes 'registry/username/custom-pepr-controller:<current-version>'.
- `-o, --output-dir [output directory]` - Define where to place build output
- `--timeout [timeout]` - How long the API server should wait for a webhook to respond before treating the call as a failure
- `--rbac-mode [admin|scoped]` - Rbac Mode: admin, scoped (default: admin) (choices: "admin", "scoped", default: "admin")
- `-i, --custom-image [custom-image]` - Specify a custom image (including version) for Admission and Watch Deployments. Example: 'docker.io/username/custom-pepr-controller:v1.0.0'
- `--registry [GitHub, Iron Bank]` - Container registry: Choose container registry for deployment manifests.
- `-v, --version <version>. Example: '0.27.3'` - DEPRECATED: The version of the Pepr image to use in the deployment manifests.
- `--withPullSecret <imagePullSecret>` - Image Pull Secret: Use image pull secret for controller Deployment.
- `-z, --zarf [manifest|chart]` - The Zarf package type to generate: manifest or chart (default: manifest).

## `npx pepr kfc`

Execute a `kubernetes-fluent-client` command. This command is a wrapper around `kubernetes-fluent-client`.

Usage:

```bash
npx pepr kfc [options] [command]
```

If you are unsure of what commands are available, you can run `npx pepr kfc` to see the available commands.

For example, to generate usable types from a Kubernetes CRD, you can run `npx pepr kfc crd [source] [directory]`. This will generate the types for the `[source]` CRD and output the generated types to the `[directory]`.

You can learn more about the `kubernetes-fluent-client` [here](https://github.com/defenseunicorns/kubernetes-fluent-client).
