# Pepr SDK

To use, import the `sdk` from the `pepr` package:

```typescript
import { sdk } from "pepr";
```

## `containers`

Returns list of all containers in a pod. Accepts the following parameters:

- **@param peprValidationRequest** The request/pod to get the containers from
- **@param containerType** The type of container to get

**Usage:**

**_Get all containers_**

```typescript
const { containers } = sdk;
let result = containers(peprValidationRequest)
```

**_Get only the standard containers_**

```typescript
const { containers } = sdk;
let result = containers(peprValidationRequest, "containers")
```

**_Get only the init containers_**

```typescript
const { containers } = sdk;
let result = containers(peprValidationRequest, "initContainers")
```

**_Get only the ephemeral containers_**

```typescript
const { containers } = sdk;
let result = containers(peprValidationRequest, "ephemeralContainers")
```

---

## `getOwnerRefFrom`

Returns the owner reference for a Kubernetes resource as an array. Accepts the following parameters:

- **@param kubernetesResource: GenericKind** The Kubernetes resource to get the owner reference for
- **@param blockOwnerDeletion: boolean** If true, AND if the owner has the "foregroundDeletion" finalizer, then the owner cannot be deleted from the key-value store until this reference is removed. 
- **@param controller: boolean** If true, this reference points to the managing controller.

**Usage:**

```typescript
const { getOwnerRefFrom } = sdk;
const ownerRef = getOwnerRefFrom(kubernetesResource);
```

---

## `writeEvent`

Write a K8s event for a CRD. Accepts the following parameters:

- **@param kubernetesResource: GenericKind** The Kubernetes resource to write the event for
- **@param event** The event to write, should contain a human-readable message for the event
- **@param options** Configuration options for the event.
	-	eventType: string – The type of event to write, for example "Warning"
	-	eventReason: string – The reason for the event, for example "ReconciliationFailed"
	-	reportingComponent: string – The component that is reporting the event, for example "uds.dev/operator"
	-	reportingInstance: string – The instance of the component that is reporting the event, for example process.env.HOSTNAME

**Usage:**

```typescript
const { writeEvent } = sdk;
const event = { message: "Resource was created." };
writeEvent(kubernetesResource, event, {
  eventType: "Info",
  eventReason: "ReconciliationSuccess",
  reportingComponent: "uds.dev/operator",
  reportingInstance: process.env.HOSTNAME,
});
```

---

## `sanitizeResourceName`

Returns a sanitized resource name to make the given name a valid Kubernetes resource name. Accepts the following parameter:

- **@param resourceName** The name of the resource to sanitize

**Usage:**

```typescript
const { sanitizeResourceName } = sdk;
const sanitizedResourceName = sanitizeResourceName(resourceName)
```

---

## See Also

Looking for information on the Pepr mutate helpers? See [Mutate Helpers](./030_actions/010_mutate.md#mutate-helpers) for information on those.
